---
layout:     post
title:      MolView 3
date:       2015-03-02
summary:    MolView is going to get a whole new architecture.
categories: posts
---

A while ago, I found out about the [Portable Native Client](https://developer.chrome.com/native-client)
(PNaCl, pronounced pinnacle) PNaCl is a sandboxing technology for running native
machine code directly in your browser. This means more CPU intensive processes
like molecular dynamics simulations can be executed inside MolView!

PNaCl could be the next big thing in MolView but its not the only thing. There is
[a whole list](https://github.com/molview/molview/wiki/Roadmap) of things I want
to improve in future MolView versions. Unfortunately, the MolView core code got
more messed up with each new set of features I added in the past year.
Therefore I have decided to rethink the architecture and rewrite the
codebase of MolView entirely so that I can (hopefully) replace the old core
with a much cleaner and more durable version 3 core :-)

I've started working out a complete definition of how this version 3 core will
look like. The general idea is that MolView is merely a platform for add-ons.
It will only provide the basic needs for typical MolView features like a menu,
dialogs, a 3D viewer and of course the infamous find-everything search entry ;-)
Add-ons will be able to hook into these common elements so that I can migrate
all existing features to separate add-ons and other developers can create their
own add-ons that integrate perfectly with the MolView look-and-feel!

I'd be very happy to hear about your ideas for MolView 3!
